# Assignment 2: Parallel Debugging and Performance Analysis #
## Introduction ##
Ensuring correctness is an important part of the software development process. In addition to correctness, the time required to produce results can also determine the usefulness of the software. Although scientiﬁc software is often parallelized to produce results in less time, the correctness of the solution may be of equal importance as its timeliness.

Unfortunately, while the parallelization process improves performance and allows an application to produce timely results, it also negatively aﬀects the ability of developers to ensure correctness. Parallel debuggers come in handy while solving performance issues. In this assignment, we will focus on a tool that helps us ensure the correctness of scientiﬁc software: the parallel debugger. Stable free software parallel debuggers with support for distributed memory systems are not yet available. Hence, a commercial parallel debugger will be used: the TotalView debugger. TotalView is oﬀered by Rogue Wave Software. The Leibniz Compute Centre (LRZ) provides access to it (via a module) to all users of the SuperMUC. This debugger allows users to inspect the source code as well as the state of the memory directly, and provides control of threads. It supports C, C++ and Fortran applications as well as CUDA for NVIDIA GPU kernels in recent versions.

After debugging the code, optimizing the performance is very important for the development of eﬃcient parallel applications. For this, students will use Vampir for performance analysis using traces in the .otf2 format obtained from Score-P, which is a scalable instrumentation and measurement framework. Vampir is a well established commercial software, and provides an intuitive framework for analysis, which enables developers to view program behavior at any level of detail.

In this assignment, the students will ﬁrst understand common issues that arise when developing OpenMP and MPI applications. Then, they will learn how to prepare and build a parallel application for analysis with the TotalView debugger. Finally, they will learn how to instrument the code with Score-P and generate traces for visualization using Vampir.